Anyway, I kicked him out in Brady.
But he came back.
We got back from tour, and he came to the office and apologized to me, blah, blah, blah.
And he apologized to the officers.
He apologized to the group.
And they laid him back in.
But in those days, well, and I guess even now,
The guys are the ones who discipline or vote to eliminate or extricate other members.
As I said, the only time I interfered was on a morals basis.
What about student leadership?
Was there a president or a... Yes, always a president, vice president, business manager, tour manager, publicity manager,
And now I understand they have a chaplain.
But we always have had a prayer before any concert backstage.
You said Fred was the first black member.
There must have been Hispanic members down through the years.
Oh yeah.
And I presume there was diversity in terms of religious preference.
Were there some international students also?
Yes, yes.
One of the things we did, the first day the MUFOs reported for rehearsal, we'd have them stand, give their name, hometown, their major, and tell us if they had any eligible sisters.
That was the routine.
Of course, it was great fun.
But we always did that, and many times we'd ask them what high school they went to.
No, we've had Asians, Puerto Ricans, Mexican.
We haven't had any Japanese.
We had Chinese.
And we did have two other black students after Fred.
One of them went on to become a big wheeler with the student government, and he had to drop out of the group because he was so busy doing that.
We really didn't have many black students audition.
We had American Indian, Native American.
And I presume you had a few, if any, problems, diversity problems.
None.
Describe, if you will, women becoming part of singing cadets.
Never.
No.
I thought there were women now.
In the same cadets?
No, no, no.
We have, we organized a group, simply because we were having so many
girls in the auditioning for, we started the women's chorus with Patty Fletus.
She was a new graduate of TU.
Okay.
Now, was this part of your... Yeah.
Oh, describe that then, the women's chorus beginning.
We were having more and more girls come to A&M, and they didn't really have anything to do.
I mean, they didn't have any
Activities, they didn't have any musical outlets at all.
So we started the women's chorus.
And Patty Fletus, who had the summer before been doing her master's thesis and came to A&M,
She lived here in Bryan.
And she had to do a choral piece for mixed music, mixed chorus.
And so we recruited some girls here in town and some girls who were students.
And some of our guys.
And we performed this for her for her master's program.
Well, she graduated then and came back to town without a job or anything.
So we hired her as the director of the women's chorus.
Well, we got to the point where we were having so many great auditions for the women's chorus that we were turning away too many.
So we started what was called the New Tradition Singers, because it was a quote, new tradition.
And we had guys.
Do you know when that was?
Yeah, it was after, it was somewhere around 75.
Okay.
Williams leaves the presidency in 76.
He has the heart attacks in 76.
Right.
And that, in fact, was a barometer.
Okay, this was before he left.
Okay.
Probably 75.
Anyway, so therefore we had another opportunity for girls to get into something.
It was 76th of the Centennial?
Okay.
We were the New Tradition Singers for two years.
And then the Centennial came.
And because the New Tradition Singers sounded kind of like a folk group, kind of terminology, we changed it to the Century Singers that year.
The year of the Centennial.
And it still is, the Century Singers.
All right, and so Singing Cadets continued to the present.
Right.
And the... It's the oldest of the vocalists.
Right, and the Century Singers, and then the Women's Chorus.
Right.
So all three.
Did you, in the years... And the Reveliers.
Oh, in the Reveliers.
The vocal jazz group.
Did you encounter, after those became, those organizations became realities,
Did you have any women coming over, crusading to become members of the scene cadets?
Oh, that was always a standing joke.
I mean, I'd have girls walk into my office very seriously, you know, say, Mr. Boone, I'd like to audition for the scene cadets.
And I would very seriously say, well, when you get back from surgery, come see me.
And they'd just laugh and walk out.
Oh, so they would take it as a smile?
Oh, sure.
It was a joke to begin with.
They knew it, you know.
Okay.
But it was a very serious conversation, you know.
It was fun.
But you're inferring that no one came serious serious and threatened a lawsuit or anything?
Never had.
Okay.
Not in my time.
All right, and no administrator made an issue.
Not to my knowledge.
Okay.
I wasn't aware of any.
Let's see, chronologically, Dr. Williams is here from late 70 to 76, and that's when the enrollment then really begins to grow because of women.
Do the demands, you and your time and your efforts, do those, does that workload increase also during that period?
Oh, sure.
Well, one thing about the cadets, for instance, we tried to keep the round number of membership at 60 because mainly for travel purposes.
People suggested, you know, well, you ought to have 85, 90 in the group.
And then just take a select group when you go on tour.
I didn't want to do that.
That destroyed inside, internally.
So I said no.
And so that's, we were highly restrictive as to how many we could take.
But I still took guys who couldn't sing.
I still took guys who said, yeah.
They had that enthusiasm and they were Aggies, you could tell right away.
Yeah, we had to have those guys.
But we had good singers too.
And we had more and more All-State type people.
Then the Century Singers, Jess Wade came.
They started really expanding, you know, and he's done such a marvelous job.
Now, the Century Singers has a larger repertoire?
Basically, in the main, a classical repertoire.
They'll do some show tunes and maybe a spiritual or two every now and then, but basically they're a classical choir and just does that beautifully.
He also directs now the women's chorus.
And the Sing Cadets have remained pretty well A&M tradition.
Yes, sir.
Since J.J.
started them,
Back in the 40s, actually 39 I think, it's become, well it's fluctuated based on the director.
There was a time when they did practically nothing more than sacred music, before JJ's, Wilkitt's tenure.
And then right after JJ's tenure, because the director at that time was the son of a preacher out of Houston.
Then Bill Turner came of course and they started doing more show tunes and spirituals, more variety.
And then I came and tried to incorporate God, country, brotherhood, and fun.
And I told the guys, if it ain't fun, don't do it.
It's been pretty standard ever since.
Probably more standard with Bill Turner and I, and more traditional than with prior to that.
I found out that there used to be a mixed chorus back before
When the student body, the corps used to go to chapel every day, there was a choir there, a mixed chorus.
And it was made up of faculty wives and daughters and students.
But they sang at chapel every day.
Let's see, John Coldest comes in the early 70s.
Right.
And so you all reported then to him.
Were there any changes that... Very supportive.
Again, money reared its evil head.
We've always felt like we were kind of bastard children.
that no one really, really cared about.
I mean, they'd give word service to it.
But it was much more important, and at a university, logically.
The academic program, etcetera, was number one.
Well, sure.
But like I say, when I came here,
In 60, I was making $6,600 a year.
In 1980, I was making less than $35,000 a year.
And I was putting in a lot of hours, a lot of time, and growing, and doing good things.
I loved it.
I loved everything I was doing.
But I felt like I was, again, kind of a bastard child.
And other people were getting a lot of recognition.
But it was all based on academics, and I knew that.
But I couldn't do anything about it.
So Coldus brought no changes.
Well, yeah, he got us a little more support.
Okay.
And he worked at it.
He had to.
I could never understand John, how he did all he did.
He's a super guy.
Boundless energy.
Always positive in his outlook.
Go man.
Do your thing.
A great encouragement for us.
And monetarily helpful.
After looking at the administrative changes, in terms of presidents, Jarvis Miller, Chuck Sampson, Vandiver, and so forth, any of those presidents have any special relation to plus or minus with the... Vandiver was least interested in the singularity of any president we had.
He just didn't care.
He was a historian and that was it.
Jarvis Miller was very supportive but in a very bad spot.
And we knew that.
Let's see, Mobley.
Mobley was good.
Again, we had the connection there, at least I did, through the Methodist Church deal.
And he was very supportive.
Again, he was getting orders from people above him to hold back or something.
He robbed Peter to pay Paul every now and then to help us.
Do you have any idea what the, in terms of the accounting, what was the source of funding?
Was it student fee account?
Partially student fee.
Student activity, money, Association of Former Students, the concessions account.
Okay.
We got it from a lot of different places, a lot of different pockets.
Not a whole bunch from any of them, but enough to make up the total operating budget.
Describe when everything was in high gear, describe a comparative academic years schedule beginning with the fall semester start.
What did you and the cadets do?
Oh, well, excuse me, the first thing we did was go through the audition program and the training program for the Bufos.
starting to learn music immediately, doing banquet-type performance conferences, A&M conferences on campus or in the community, the Hilton or the Ramada or whatever.
And we'd do...
Oh, probably 17, 18 of those between then and the end of the semester.
End of the semester, we'd be getting ready for the Christmas concert, which was usually, it always worked out the same day as the Bryan College Stage Christmas Parade.
But it didn't really bother us that much, except that the guys who were in the parade,
I had to come back real quick and change clothes and blah blah blah and do the Christmas concert that night.
And that concert was usually where?
In Rudder.
It started in Guyne, but the really big one started in Rudder because we started including all three of the groups, all four of the groups actually.
St.
Cadets, Women's Chorus, Century Singers, and Reveilliers.
And we'd each do a segment.
And then the grand finale, which was always the Honolulu Chorus.
And then from the date of that, say it was like December 4th or something, from there we would, the cadets would highly concentrate on tour music because they were getting ready to go home for their Christmas break.
And I'd make what I called learning tapes for them that we would record in rehearsal, during rehearsal, so they could take it home with them and be working on it while they were home.
The Century Singers and the Women's Chorus and the River Lairs, more or less after that Christmas concert, shut down until the second semester, until the next semester.
Well then, of course, we went on our ten-day tour, and we'd go, and we went everywhere.
We went into Louisiana.
maybe four times during my tenure, maybe five, because we went to New Orleans twice, went to Baton Rouge, went to Shreveport, Bossier City, Lexington, Livingston, Lexington.
That's where the Baptist College is.
Went into Arkansas once.
Never did get into Oklahoma, and never got into New Mexico, but we'd travel three, four thousand miles a year just within Texas.
And normally, what was the duration of the trip?
Well, we did the 10-day tour in January, and then in the spring semester, we'd do four, possibly five, weekend tours, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
All right.
How many concerts would you give in that 10-day?
Oh, we'd do definitely 10, and sometimes as many as 12.
If we had the opportunity to sing, like on Sundays,
singing at church on Sunday morning, and then the concert that night.
Or if we had the chance to sing in a public school.
In an assembly we would.
It was always tiring to have to do two in one day.
Who did the scheduling?
We did.
I did.
You decided where to go.
Right.
We'd get requests, you know, postcards, mail, phone calls.
And we went every year to Dallas.
Austin always ended our tour.
San Antonio, Houston.
Every now and then we'd hit Fort Worth, not every year though, but those were always stops, those cities I named.
As you look back, what were your favorite places for a stop?
Houston, well, it's just the people there, the ladies there.
And most of the time we were sponsored by A&M Mothers Club.
or an A&M club, or a combination thereof.
But then many times we'd be sponsored by the civic arts committee or whatever, or a church, or a school, just a school, high school choir, or a band trying to raise money for a trip or something, you know.
But most of the time we were affiliated with A&M others clubs and A&M clubs.
All right, so San Antonio was always a good spot.
I remember when we sang, the Aggie wore him on the steps of the
on the UT campus.
We'd gone over to participate in a male chorus contest.
We won.
But the morning after, we all lined up on the steps of that library and sang the Aggie War hymn, and we survived.
It was pretty close.
All right, so back to the schedule.
Then the spring, you did the January, then some weekends.
Right, and that varied usually from four.
It averaged four to five, never more than five.
All right, then muster and what other?
Spring concert, our spring concert here.
And that normally came?
May.
end of April, maybe.
And then we used to, our spring concert was, quote, the end of the season.
But the last, no, ten years,
We'd always have three, four, maybe even five banquet-type or conference-type shows to do after our spring concert.
And they were all always kind of anticlimactic.
We had done our thing.
We were tired.
But sometimes you had to do some just to satisfy the need to possibly do it at another time the next year.
Now there must be some good stories you recall of some goofs, some foul ups, some mistakes, and some marvelous accomplishments on these trips.
Well, of course, outstanding in my mind were the seven years we went to Miss Teenage America for national television exposure.
We first went, Charlie Meeker was in charge of that then,
And he had heard us sing at Six Flags Over Texas on an Easter weekend.
And we were on the amphitheater stage at that time singing and it started to rain.
And we just stood there and sang anyway, you know.
And then walked around the grounds trying to dry out.
But he had heard us and seen us do that.
And he's the one that initiated the invitation to Miss Teenage America.
Anyway, the first year, let's say the first three or four years we went, we had a total of seven.
They'd give us a definite spot in the show.
We were gigolos, of course, escorts for the girls.
But he'd give us a definite spot where we were in the spotlight and had a chance to do our thing.
And everybody knew we were from Texas A&M.
Well, as it went on further down, the spot kept getting smaller and smaller and smaller.
And finally, after the seventh year, I said, Charlie,
I'm sorry, we're not doing what we came here to do in the beginning.
And he said, now don't burn your bridges behind you.
And I said, you've already burned it, Charlie.
We're out of here.
So we didn't go back.
But we used to do it on Thanksgiving weekend.
The guys were playing football on Thanksgiving Day, but they'd set up monitors for us to watch the game during rehearsals and so forth.
It was a good deal.
We drank so much Dr. Pepper it would kill you as one of the sponsors.
That was exciting.
The trip to the Mike Douglas show in Philadelphia was great.
That's when I popped my cummerbund on camera.
Well, the thing is, Mrs. Conley, he used to have guest co-hosts, and one month he was having governor's wives.
So Mrs. Conley was one of the hosts, and she's the one that got us up there.
She said she wanted to sink it up there.
And I don't know how we paid for that trip.
I don't know if they paid for it or I don't know how we got there.
But we went and spent three days
We got to visit Valley Forge, and one of the most memorable things I can recall is when we sang the Battle Hymn of the Republic in the chapel there at Valley Forge.
And all of us just, well we all ended up crying, and goosebumps.
It's just amazing.
But I popped my cover button on camera on his show.
We were singing O Holy Night.
And the deal was, he was supposed to sing the solo, and we were going to back him up.
Well, that's the way we rehearsed it.
But during rehearsals, I'd sing the solo, you know, in my baritone voice.
He's a tenor.
And we got up there, and we get on camera.
And he said, oh, Bob, I don't feel like doing this.
I said, why don't you sing it?
Well, I was.
So I did it.
But when I reached for that high note at the very end,
My cover button popped.
So I had my hand here and I didn't let go of it until we got off camera and then it fell to the floor of course.
I told him, I said, you should have done that.
And then when we get back on camera he makes a big deal out of it.
My cover button popped in.
But that was a good trip.
The Ed Selvin Show was a good trip.
We got that as a result of working with Sergio Franke at one of the Miss Teenage America pageants.
And we enjoyed that trip.
We got kind of screwed out of, pardon the expression.
Doing the second song, we had two songs ready.
The one we did with him backing up No Man Who Was an Island, which he had heard us know at the Miss Teenage pageant.
But then it had been a big, super, super arrangement.
And he sang the solo, we backed him up.
And then we were supposed to do Sunshine in My Soul as a solo piece for us.
Well, the group that preceded us on his show, it was a variety show, of course, and the group that preceded us was a funky jazz group.
They had incense on their guitars and everything else, you know.
Well, they went over their time slot, and they had to cut our solo out.
But we made a big joke of that all over the state of Texas when we got back.
Sunshine in My Soul was the name of it.
And in fact, we did an album that's called Sunshine, you know.
It's fun.
That was a great trip.
We went to Chicago to the National Hospital Administrators' Convention.
And that was a great trip.
We stayed on the river on the lakefront in a sports club there.
And we got to see the museums there along the lakefront.
Of course, the trip to Romania was great.
That was 21 days.
And Romania, of course, is smaller than the state of Texas.
When did you make that trip?
Do you remember?
I can tell you.
so that trip to romania was 1990 and you said 21 days 21 days no one got sick no not really uh we've we've uh in all of our touring we've had very rarely uh
real serious.
I mean we'd get guys with the flu and things like that, but nothing earth-shaking.
We'd deal with it.
And many times we'd have, of course as I said, the guys always stayed in host homes, and the host would take care of them.
threw up or did anything.
They had a doctor there and blah, blah, blah in no time.
They really took care of them.
Now, do you remember any other than a cummerbund problem, do you remember any other mix-ups or goofs on trips?
Probably not because I'd try to forget them as quick as possible.
Did scene cadet members ever attempt to play any tricks on you?
Oh, oh yeah.
Share some of those.
Well, we used to have what they called pull-outs.
The bufos at the end of particularly our spring concert would
Hold up signs, change words of songs to my chagrin.
Usually, it started to get out of hand.
And it finally got to the point where I said, okay, you could do three pull-outs, but you have to prove them.
with me because if they interfere with the flow of the show or if they're too inside.